The map method performs an action on every item in an array,
but creates a new array to store the results.
See how that's a lot more functional.
We're repeating a function call once per item in an array,
and everything necessary for the function to run is passed as an argument and
the return value is the only effect of running
the function and the original array is left intact.
That follows the rules of functional perfectly.
Here let's take a look at an example.
In this example, you can see that I have a captain's array and that I am
mapping over that array to create a new array called titles.
All that I'm doing as I map over the items is to append the word captain to their name.
If I run the code,
you can see here that I can console log
the result array that has the expected captain before each name,
but I also can still console log,
the original array which does not have captain.
This is a purely functional array method, which is great.
If this syntax isn't as familiar to you,
you might recognize this better with a more traditional arrow function,
but this is simply one argument that we receive from map,
and this is automatically returned from
the function and becomes an item in the titles array.
In this second example,
you can see that I have an array of numbers and I'm running a map method on
those numbers to return a new array that contains the numbers doubled.
But what if I wanted to move this logic out into another function?
Well I can, it's called an external callback,
and I can create a function here which I've called doubler and I can run my map method,
and instead of writing my logic inside,
I can simply call my function that is outside.
Now this is sometimes better because it allows you to write
cleaner functionality in an external function
without having a ton of logic right inside of the map,
but this is only a matter of personal preference.
In the end as you can see,
the two achieve the same results.
Hopefully that walk-through helps make map a little bit more clear,
but now it's your turn to go try them in the exercises.